# auth-server-template

This is a sample server for Azure IoT MQ broker custom authentication.

The custom authentication feature of the IoT MQ broker provides an extension point that allows customers to plug in an authentication server to authenticate clients that connect to the MQTT broker. The server here is intended as a sample for how such a custom authentication can be implemented.

## Deploying the template

A private preview image of the template is available with the tag `e4kpreview.azurecr.io/auth-server-template:latest`. You only need to deploy the template yourself once you make modifications.

The template server needs to be built and deployed as a Kubernetes service. You will need to provide the repository for hosting its container image.

To deploy, run the [build_image.sh](deploy/build_image.sh) script and pass the image tag to use. This script builds and pushes the template image.

```sh
IMAGE_TAG=example.example.io/auth-server-template:latest ./deploy/build_image.sh
```

## Running the template

1. Run the [make_credentials.sh](deploy/make_credentials.sh) script to generate server credentials for the template. This script generates test certificates and saves them as Kubernetes secrets.

```sh
./deploy/make_credentials.sh
```

2. If you are using your own container register, edit [auth-server-template.yaml](deploy/auth-server-template.yaml#L10) and set the image that you created in the previous section.

3. Deploy the pod and service for the template.

```sh
kubectl apply -f ./deploy/auth-server-template.yaml
```

5. When finished, run [cleanup.sh](deploy/cleanup.sh) to delete resources.

## Using the template

Add an MQ BrokerAuthentication with custom authentication. An example BrokerAuthentication is below:

```yaml
apiVersion: mq.iotoperations.azure.com/v1beta1
kind: BrokerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: custom-authn
spec:
  listenerRef:
    - listener
  authenticationMethods:
    - method: custom
      # Required, must match the pod name in auth-server-template.yaml
      endpoint: https://auth-server-template
      # Optional; this example uses the client cert generated by make_credentials.sh
      auth:
        type: x509
        source: k8s
        secret: custom-auth-client-cert
      # Required, as this template uses a self-signed CA.
      ca_cert: custom-auth-ca
```

The auth server template will approve authentication requests from all clients, except clients providing usernames that start with `deny`. It will set a credential expiration of 10 seconds for any clients providing usernames that start with `expire`.
